---
date: 2019-12-17
title: Deploying Rails to Netlify
---

You read that title right.
[www.danott.co][] is a Rails application deployed to [Netlify][].
More specifically it's a static site that is generated by Rails.
Whenever I push to my git repo Netlify runs `bin/rails build` and a fresh site is deployed in under a minute.

## Why

I recently migrated my site from [Jekyll][] deployed on GitHub pages to [Gatsby][] deployed on Netlify.
The pain points of my Jekyll setup were all self induced.
I had a clobbered together setup for managing JavaScript and stylesheets.
I was trying to do some things that the system wasn't built to do.
I wanted first class support for modern front end tooling, and dynamic build time data.

As an example pain, [the links page][] is driven by my [Pinboard][] bookmarks.
I wanted to be able to redeploy when I added a new bookmark.
Gatsby's build-time fetching of data sources paired with Netlify's build hooks fit this need nicely.

I'd been rolling with this for a few months, but something felt off.
Don't get me wrong, I like Gatsby well enough.
Working with React components that are hydrated by GraphQL is pretty cool.
The hot reloading of every change is a developers dream.
It's the single-page-app by default that didn't mesh with my values.

See, I came up in the time of progressive enhancement and "the semantic web".
While some in this community take these principles to a religious level that is not helpful, I do believe in the main sentiment.
For my personal website, I want to be delivering static html, with a little bit of style and JavaScript sprinkled in.

Rails is really good and rendering html with a little bit of style and JavaScript sprinkled in.
It's also the hammer I'm most comfortable with, so I fully recognize I'm making my personal website look like a nail. 🔨

## How

I've implemented a build script that is invoked with `bin/rails build`.
This script is a composition of a few smaller steps.

1. Grab remote content with my custom `bin/rails import`
2. Compile assets with `bin/rails webpacker:compile`
3. Generate static pages with `bin/rails html:build`

The idea for step one is inspired by Gatsby.
I built a small class that hits the json endpoint and stores the data locally for filtering/rendering/etc.

Step two is standard fare for deploying a modern Rails application, static or otherwise.

Step three is where the magic happens.
Reaching back into the history of Rails, you'll discover the [actionpack_page-caching][] gem.
This gem writes the response body of a Rails controller action to a html file on the filesystem.
This file can then be read by a server to avoid the Rails stack entirely.
I still have a hard time imagining how this gem could be practical in most Rails applications, but it does exactly what I need for generating a static site.

So I built a tiny class called the `Crawler`.
This class is responsible for keeping track of all the pages we want to generate.
And then generating them.
(Another Gatsby inspiration, mimicing the `createPage` API.)

```ruby
class Crawler
  attr_reader :paths

  def initialize(paths: [])
    @paths = paths
  end

  def call
    Hash[paths.map { |path| visit(path) }]
  end

  def visit(path)
    env = Rack::MockRequest.env_for(path).merge("HTTP_HOST" => "www.danott.co")
    rack_response = Rails.application.call(env)
    [path, rack_response.first]
  end
end

# An oversimplification of the pages registered.
Crawler.new(paths: %w[/links /poetry, /posts]).call
# => { "/links" => 200, "/poetry" => 200, "/posts" => 200 }
```

I'm returning a hash of requested paths to response codes so I can test that my build script is working!

```ruby
class CrawlerTest < Minitest::Test
  def test_smoke_test
    responses = Crawler.new(paths: all_the_paths).call
    assert responses.values.all? { |code| code == 200 }
  end
end
```

In development I have page caching turned off and the development experience is like any other Rails app.
In production I have page caching turned on, and the crawler generates everything in the build step.
In the immediate I'm very happy to have the trusty hammer of a majestic monolith powering my static site.

[www.danott.co]: https://www.danott.co
[jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com
[gatsby]: https://gatsbyjs.com
[pinboard]: https://pinboard.in
[netlify]: https://netlify.com
[the links page]: /links
[actionpack_page-caching]: https://github.com/rails/actionpack-page_caching
